---
layout: post
title: The Decline of the Macbook Pro
---
I've been using Macs for almost nine years. I got a 15" MacBook Pro the summer
before my freshman year of college through my school's computer store. I used
it for six years before getting a 13" model in 2015. I'm considering getting a
new one in the next year or two, but it seems like the latest Macbook Pros are
worse in almost every way that matters to me.

[MagSafe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MagSafe) was always one of the best
MacBook features. Now, all the MacBook Pro models use
[USB-C](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB-C) for charging. While I like the
idea of eventually being able to use the same charger for everything, losing
MagSafe is still unfortunate.

Apple has always been enthusiastic about pushing forward with new standards and
embracing a wireless world. They dropped the DVD drive long before other
companies did. But I didn't want a DVD drive, even in 2015. USB 2/3 and HDMI
are different. MacBook Pros only have USB-C ports now. My 2015 machine has
HDMI, which has occasionally been useful since HDMI is so widely supported. Not
having a single legacy USB port may be progressive, but I don't like the idea
of buying and carrying around dongles and adapters.

I've tried the new butterfly mechanism keyboard, and it feels terrible. It has
almost no travel. I love the physical feeling of typing, which is why I use a
mechanical keyboard with obnoxiously loud switches. Furthermore, the new
keyboard seems to be significantly [less
reliable](https://theoutline.com/post/2402/the-new-macbook-keyboard-is-ruining-my-life),
with [pieces of dust or
debris](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2018/05/report-butterfly-macbook-pro-keyboards-require-more-frequent-more-expensive-repairs/)
causing keypresses to not register.

The trackpad is too big. Even one palm rejection failure in a hundred is too
much. I set my sensitivity to max anyway, so a larger trackpad doesn't help me
because I can go from one edge of the screen to another with barely any finger
movement. The trackpad is also aesthetically too large because there's almost
no margin between it and the keyboard and the edge of the machine. I've
realized that one of the reasons most terminal emulators look ugly by default
is because they barely provide any margin between the text and the edges.

MacBook Pros are expensive. At least in terms of the core hardware
specifications, other laptops with similar processors, RAM, and hard drives are
several hundred dollars cheaper. However, Apple products also retain much more
resale value.

The touch bar doesn't seem useful.

I use almost none of the OS X software.

I've been considering getting a Lenovo [Thinkpad X1
Carbon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ThinkPad_X1_Carbon) instead.

As a software developer, I try to do as much development as I can in
[Docker](https://www.docker.com/). However, there are significant performance
issues with [Docker for Mac](https://www.docker.com/docker-mac) when using
[mounted volumes](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/77). The issues
aren't very noticeable for small projects, but for working on a medium-sized website, I exclusively do development on Linux on my five year old Lenovo laptop.

It has USB-C charging but still retains legacy USB and HDMI ports.

It's about a half pound lighter than the 13" Macbook Pro, yet it has a 14"
screen.

It has a matte screen.

native Docker performance

Mac pros:

iTerm2

more native apps

polished (wake from sleep)

iOS/MacOS development
